# Introduction

  The goal of any team, regardless of sport, is winning the National Championship. In winning, the team claims victory and earns the right to call themselves better than all other competitors. In men's college basketball, winning means being the last team standing after the March Madness Tournament. To qualify for the tournament, a team must either win a Division I conference (32 total Division I conferences), or be selected by the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Committee (36 teams are chosen). In all, 68 teams compete in the tournament. Four teams are eliminated in the "play-in" round, leaving 64 teams split into four regions. In each region, there are 16 teams, and each team is assigned a seed number 1 through 16. The tournament is single-elimination, and once each region has a winner, each winner plays against the others until only one team remains. The tournament is a daunting task for any team, and once the games begin, anything can happen.

  In 1982, the term "March Madness" was coined to describe the tournament due to its characteristic upsets and nail-biting games. Today, attempting to predict the winner of each game in the chaotic match-up has become a fun challenge for fans across the nation. The odds of correctly predicting the outcome of each game is roughly 1 in 9 quintillion, but, viewers tackle the challenge regardless. Individuals implement unique strategies to pick the winners; some choose statistics, others, gut feeling, while still others look to mascots and/or team colors. While each method experiences a varying degree of success, the introduction of improved technology, alongside the understanding and application of data, may make it possible to more accurately select the March Madness Tournament winners.

  For the past few years, Kaggle has partnered with Google to host a competition around predicting the NCAA March Madness Tournament using machine learning algorithms. Kaggle's [website](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions) provides two different competitions concerning the NCAA March Madness bracket predictions: men's basketball and women's basketball. The analysis in this report focuses on men's basketball and identifying which factors, if any, could potentially lead to a team's success in the NCAA Tournament. The primary objectives are as follows: 1) determine which regular-season statistics have the largest impact on tournament outcomes and 2) show if regular-season rankings should be factored into game-pick decisions. 
